So let's get started
with these core Deno features.
So let's write some Deno code, and for that in apt.ts,
I'm going to delete this simple code.
And now instead, I want to store some text in a file,
let's say.
So a very trivial application.
So we got some text.
This is a test and it should be stored in a file let's say.
Of course, this could be some text,
which we got from the user input.
And I want to store this in a file now.
For that we have the globally available Deno object.
Now, if I just type it like this, you see my IDE
is not liking this.
Now this code will run, not like this,
but as soon as I access something on Deno,
but it would be nice if my IDE would also understand
that Deno code will work.
If it would understand that there is
this global Deno object available.
And to help my IDE, to help which will still code with that,
I recommend that you go to View, Extensions
and there search for Deno,
and you'll find Deno extension, which you can install,
which will bring Deno support to visuals to do code.
Once you install and enable this,
you can go back to the Explorer
and now you will see that on this Deno object,
you get all the completion.
At least you should be getting this now,
and this of course yields a better development experience.
Of course, just to make it is clear again, this Deno object
and all the methods we can access on it is only available
if we then later execute this file with the Deno executable,
not if we would execute it with node or anything else.
So this Deno object here is really only available
if that script later gets executed by Deno,
otherwise it'll not be available.
Now our goal was to write a file.
So conveniently there is a writeFile method,
which we can call.
And as the name suggests, this is a method
that helps us write to a file.
There always is the writeTextFile method,
which makes writings on text to a file even easier,
but to see more Deno features in action,
I'm going to go for writeFile.
Now, writeFile wants two main arguments here,
it wants a path to the file, including the file name
and the data that should be written to the file.
And the data should be a Uint8Array,
which is a strange data type, but which is actually
a core data type built into JavaScript,
which in the end is an array full of bytes, you could say.
Now, we will be able to convert our text to bytes.
So it's no problem that we have no bytes right now,
but that we only have a string.
Let's start with the first argument, the path.
And here let's say we wanna create
that file in the same folder.
Conveniently, the only thing we then need to do
is specify a file name.
So here I'm going to create my message.TXT file.
The second argument should be the data that we wanna store,
and that should be this byte array.
Now, actually here this preview snippet gives me an idea
on how we can convert the string to such a bytes array.
We simply create an encoder by instantiating a new
text encoder that is a globally available feature in Deno.
If we go to the Deno docs and we search for text encoder,
we see that is a globally available constructor function.
And in the end, this creates an object
that helps us convert text to bytes.
So our data then is encoder.encode
and to encode we pass our text.
And then it's the data, the encoded text,
which we feed as a second argument to writeFile.
No, that's not too fancy, but that's our first Deno code
we can write.
Now, Deno, as I mentioned on a slide earlier,
embraces modern JavaScript features like Promises.
Therefore writeFile does not take a call back
to let us know once it's done.
Instead here, we now can call then or a catch
because writeFile returns a promise.
So here with then we can listen for the
success of this write operation
and we can then do whatever we want to do.
For example, we can console.log "wrote to file"
and be done with it.
Now, if we execute this file, if we save it and run it with
Deno Run, we should have a script that writes to a file.
But actually what happens is that we get an error,
a permission denied error.
Well, and that is actually a key feature of Deno.
So what's up with this error?